Okay.
So in this lesson, we'll introduce a helper function from the view library called Maps State.
What Maps State helps us do is map or in other words, connect, view state properties to component
properties.
So in order to introduce that, I want you to focus your attention on this is logged in computed property
or method right here we have a computed property called is logged in and all it does is reference a
property on our view x store state called is logged in a property with the exact same name.
This operation is so common that the maps state helper function exists to simplify the syntax that we
have here.
So you might be a little bit curious because you might be looking at this and saying, Wait a minute,
this is not even that much code to write.
And you'd be correct, it's not really that much code.
But imagine that our component relies on five different state properties on our store, right?
So imagine, for example, we have property A, property B for each one.
You need to write out a separate computed property like computed property.
A would reference this that's stored at state that a right and then below we might have computed property
B which would reference this that stored that state that B And so very quickly, you can start getting
a lot of these additional lines of code simply because you want to define computed properties with the
exact same name as existing store properties.
Right?
And so even something like this, you now have nine or ten lines, but the maps state helper function
is going to allow us to represent the same idea in a single line.
And that's the advantage.
It's not so readily apparent when we're only referencing one property as we are with is logged in.
But it is a general good practice and a very powerful function.
So I do want to show you how it works.
So what that said, let me remove this and what I'm going to do is I'm going to comment out is logged
in just so we can compare its syntax side by side with Map State.
And then I'm going to import Map State somewhere.
Scroll up to the very top here of my script section and this is going to be an import from view X.
I'm going to place it above my project related imports because it is an NPM library.
So right here I'm going to import a named export from view called Map State and I'm going to import
it not from view but from the U.S..
And just to reiterate here, the word map means connect.
So if you think about, for example, the map method on an array in JavaScript, the goal is to go over
each element and map it to or connect it to the next value, the follow up value.
And that's the exact same idea here.
When we use the word map, we mean connect.
So we want to connect, view, store, state to component properties.
Wherever we use this function, we want to map our store state to existing component properties.
So I'm going to scroll down here back to Computed and I'm going to show you how Map State works.
It actually has a couple syntactical options and we're going to start with sort of the ugliest one and
then simplify it to the cleanest one because there are actually several ways that you can use this function.
So the first thing to know is that map state is going to return a JavaScript object and that JavaScript
object is going to have essentially computed methods on it.
So you can almost imagine that whatever maps the returns is going to be like a JavaScript object.
It has computed property A and has computed property B, etc. So whenever we get the return value,
we don't want to simply pluck this object into our computed properties.
We want to de structure the properties on the object that maps state, returns to us and make those
regular computed methods in our computed object.
So the takeaway from all of this is whenever we invoke Map State and Line, it's going to return an
object to us and we want to make sure to de structure that objects properties in our computed object
right here.
So make sure you're in your computed object right here in line.
You invoke Map State and you make sure to structure it using that triple dot E6 JavaScript syntax.
So if Map state returns an object with three properties, then we're going to take those three properties,
each of which is going to be a method and we're going to stick them back into the top level computed
object.
Similarly, if Map State returns an object with ten properties, we're going to take those ten properties,
i.e. those ten methods, and we're going to stick them in the top level computed object that we have
right here.
Okay.
So the maps state function can take a variety of inputs.
And the first one I want to show you is a JavaScript object.
All right.
And here's our first syntactical option.
When we provide this object, we can provide a property representing the computed property that we want
to have on our main nav component.
So on my main nav component, I want to be able to access and is logged in property.
This name is entirely up to us, but typically you're going to give it the exact same name as the property
on your store because why would you give it a different name?
Right?
Otherwise we'd have two names for the same thing.
And it can be confusing.
But the key takeaway is you can do that.
And that's why this syntax exists.
You can specify a property representing what you want to exist on Main NAV.
So I'm telling view that I want a is logged in computed property on my main nav component.
The value that I provide is an inline arrow function and that inline arrow function is going to receive
the store state as the singular argument.
So I'm going to write State in here and let me open up my store index tags file so we can remind ourselves
what our store state looks like.
So what I'm getting in this inline function is going to be this thing right here and where I can specify
using and the return here is what property I want to get from my state.
So in that case, I'm getting my state and on my state I want my is logged in property.
All right.
So I'm going to save that.
And what we're doing here is basically the exact same thing as we're doing above right here.
We are defining an is logged in computed property that is going to be a reference to the view store
states is logged in property.
It's the exact same thing we have here.
The advantage of this approach is there's several Denver's number one, if we have other properties,
it's as easy as defining them like so right.
So we can do it all in a single method call.
So imagine we have a store with properties and B all we have to do is do that.
And it does save us a couple of lines compared to the implementation we saw earlier where we can define
all of the properties that we want to take from our store and also map that store state to the corresponding
properties that we want on our main NAV component.
And of course, because we have an object here, we can customize what those component properties are
going to be.
So for example, if you did want a different name, if you wanted this to be user is logged in, we
can totally do that.
If we want this to be property A, we can totally do that.
So if we do this syntax, we're now going to have this that user is logged in available on the main
nav component.
We're going to have this DOT property available on our main nav component.
But behind the scenes, those computed properties on our main nav component are going to be referencing
these properties on our View Store State.
So this is just a simple syntax to consolidate the exact same logic we have here to define a computed
property that is a reference to a view X store state property.
Okay, so you might be thinking, can we make this even cleaner?
The answer is we absolutely can.
So let me remove my fake properties right here.
Let me return this back to is logged in.
And if you don't want to work with this area function syntax, if you want to reference a top level
property on your view store, you can simply reference it using a string.
So right here, instead of providing the arrow function in the property syntax, I can simply write
that I want it to be is logged in.
So what this is saying again is create an is logged in computed property on my main nav that is going
to be a reference to the top level is logged in property on my view store state.
All right, so I'm referencing this thing right here.
Once again, we can customize this.
We can say create a computed property called user is logged in that references the is logged in property
on my view X store state.
All right.
So same principle we have right here.
This syntax that we have right here is basically equivalent to if we call the computed property user
is logged in above.
But obviously it works a little bit better when we have many properties because it consolidates all
that method syntax.
Okay.
They are thinking again, can we do even better?
And the answer is yes, we can.
So I'm going to show you the third and final option, which is the one I tend to use most often when
working in the view.
Typically speaking, usually I don't want to give a different property name to the component compared
to the View Store, because as I mentioned, I think it only makes things more confusing, right?
Whatever I call it in my view store is probably what I want to call it in my component because I don't
want to give two names to the same thing and create confusion.
So if we have a situation where we want to create a computed property with the exact same name as a
view store property, I can provide an array here.
And in that array I provide strings representing the top level view X store properties that I want to
pull out and make available as computed properties on Main NAV.
So it's simply going to be a string of is logged in.
All right.
And of course, the beautiful part about the syntax is, again, imagine I have four different computed
properties that I want to create based on four different view store properties.
At that point, it's as simple as adding additional string arguments to the array.
I want property a pulled off.
I want property B, I want property C from my view X store and I want them all available as computed
properties called A, B and C on my main F component.
And so instead of having a method for each one of those and having, you know, 12 lines of code, I
can now pack them into this single array on a single line and consolidate all that code.
So this is basically helping us write these functions, but Vue is going to do that work for us or view
X more specifically in Map State.
It's going to do that work for us and spare us writing all this additional boilerplate code for this
very common operation.
So with that said, I'm going to remove my fake properties and with that even this is beneficial, right?
We have one line of code where there used to be three.
This line of code is doing the exact same thing as our former implementation was doing right here,
the exact same thing.
It's returning a computed object with a property called is logged in where destruction that computed
reference right here and that allows us to remove this form implementation and make it a little bit
lighter and cleaner and spare us the need to write that extra code.
You can see all of our tests are still passing, so this is totally valid.
It's basically doing the exact same thing.
So I'm not introducing anything new in this lesson, but it is a much cleaner and faster way to use
the helper functions in view X to accomplish the common operations we do, such as creating a computed
component property that is a reference to a view store state property.
All right.
That's what maps state helps us with.
It helps us map or in other words, connect the store state to the components computed properties.
All right.
That's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you in the next one.